#Summary of Missing Values Tutorials #by Kish Naik


Lifecycle of a Data Science Projects
#1. Data Collection Statergy: from company side, 3rd party API's, Surveys #2. Feature Engineering: Handling missing values: 

QUESTION: Why are there Missing values? My explanation for the question: 
	- Data that we collect should has some errors and every dataset collect by a human and human should make mistakes.


QUESTION: What are the different types of Missing Data?

Missing Competely at Random, MCAR: A variable is missing completely at random (MCAR) if the probability of being missing is the same for all the observations.
	 When data is MCAR, there is absolutely no relationship between the data missing and any other values, observer or missing.

Missing Data Not at Random(MNAR) : Systematic missing Values There is absolutely some relationship between the data missing and any other values, observer or missing, within the dataset

Missing at Random (MAR) : Suppose, you have a dataset about depression and there are two features: Sex and Salary, Sex feature is full but Salary feature has missing values because of mens hide their salaries so that's "MAR"
									Example: Men : Hide their salary Woman : Hide their age


ALL THE TECHNIQUES OF HANDLING MISSING VALUES

	1.Mean/median replicament
	2.Random Sample Imputation
	3.Capturing NaN values with a new feature
	4.End of Distribution Imputation
	5.Arbitrary Imputation
	6.Frequent categories Imputation


Notes: 

Mean/Median:

QUESTION: When should we apply? 
		Mean / Median imputation has the assumption that the data are missing completely at random (MCAR) We solve this by replacing the NaN with the most frequent occurance of the variables

						ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF MEAN/MEDIAN IMPUTATION
									ADVANTAGES:
								Easy to implement(Robust to outliers)
								Faster way to obtain the complete dataset

									DISADVANTAGES:
								Change or distortion (bozulma) in the original variance
								Impacts correlation

Random Sample Imputation:

Aim: Random sample imputation is similar to mean/media but it's consists of taking random observation from the dataset and we use this observation to replace the NaN values
							Note: Mean/Media uses for MCAR

When should it be used? It assumes that the data are missing completely at random(MCAR)

						ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF RANDOM SAMPLE IMPUTATION

									ADVANTAGES:
								Easy to implement
								There is less distortion in the dataset

									DISVANTAGES:
								Every sitution randomness won't work



Capturing NaN Values With A New Feature:

Note: It works well if the data are not missing completely at random (MNAR)

End Of Distrubtion Imputation:

We are taking a sample of end of distrubition in the dataset and we are using the sample to fillna()


Arbitrary Value Imputation:

Note1: This technique was derived from kaggle competition
Note2 : It consist of replacing NaN by an arbitrary value
	#It should be more frequently present
	#Arbitrary = Determined by chance, whim, or impulse, and not by necessity, reason, or principle.


First of all:

Categorical Data: A categorical variable (sometimes called a nominal variable) is one that has two or more categories, but there is no intrinsic(içsel) ordering to the categories.  
	For example, a binary variable (such as yes/no question) is a categorical variable having two categories (yes or no) and there is no intrinsic ordering to the categories.  

Ordinal Data: An ordinal variable is similar to a categorical variable.  The difference between the two is that there is a clear ordering of the categories.  
	For example, suppose you have a variable, economic status, with three categories (low, medium and high). 
	 In addition to being able to classify people into these three categories, you can order the categories as low, medium and high.

Interval Data: An interval variable is similar to an ordinal variable, except that the intervals between the values of the numerical variable are equally spaced.  For example, suppose you have a variable such as annual income that is measured in dollars, and we have three people who make $10,000, $15,000 and $20,000. The second person makes $5,000 more than the first person and $5,000 less than the third person, 
	and the size of these intervals is the same.  If there were two other people who make $90,000 and $95,000, the size of that interval between these two people is also the same ($5,000).
			
		Source: https://stats.oarc.ucla.edu/other/mult-pkg/whatstat/what-is-the-difference-between-categorical-ordinal-and-interval-variables/


QUESTION: How to fill Categorical Missing Values?

1. Frequent Category Imputation

	Note: If you want to use Frequent Category Imputation, the feature has to include less NaN values

		Example: 
			Features with NaN Values:
				BsmtQual        37
				FireplaceQu    690
				GarageType      81
				SalePrice        0

			We can use Replacing Function to use Frequent C.I
			
				def imputation_nan(df,variable):
    					most_frequent_category = df[variable].value_counts().index[0] #The value_counts().index[0] gives us the highest value in the variable
    					df[variable].fillna(most_frequent_category,inplace=True)

						ADVANTAGES

						Easy to implement
						Faster way to implement

						DISADVANTAGES
						
						Since we are using the more frequent labels, it may use them in an over represented way, if there are many NaN
						It distorts the relation of the most frequent label




2. Adding A Variable To Capture NaN

N: Suppose if you have more frequent categories, we just replace NaN with a new category














